This directory contains a series of small example apps that illustrate how to
code up common use cases for a Bitcoin Cash application.

The `low-level` directory
contains low-level applications exercising a single feature of bitbox. Think of
these examples like lego blocks that can be used to build a bigger app.

The `applications` directory contains example applications like wallets, voting,
and other ideas.

## Installation
Prior to running these examples, you need to setup this code repository. In the
root directory run these commands:
```
npm install
npm run build
npm run postbuild
```

## Running Examples
You can run each example script by entering its directory and executing `npm start`

## Basic BCH Wallet Functions
These basic examples in the `applications/wallet` directory are used to bootstrap
a BCH testnet wallet for use with the other examples. Recommended path:

1. Create a wallet
2. [Fund it with a testnet faucet](https://developer.bitcoin.com/faucets/bch)
3. Check the balance
4. Send some tBCH (testnet BCH)
5. Send tBCH back to the faucet.

Once those objectives are achieved, you're ready explore some of the other examples.

* `create-wallet` Create a BCH compatible HD Node wallet on the BCH testnet.
Send test BCH using a testnet faucet (like
[this one](https://developer.bitcoin.com/faucets)) to the address saved in the
wallet.json file generated by this app.

* `check-balance` Check the balance of your BCH wallet.

* `send-bch` Send BCH to another address. You can send small amounts of tBCH
(testnet BCH) to the address in the address in the wallet to generate
UTXOs and explore
[the difference between *addresses* and *utxos* in Bitcoin](https://developer.bitcoin.com/mastering-bitcoin-cash/4-transactions/#transaction-outputs).

* `consolidate-utxos` to combine multiple utxos in an address back into a single
UTXO.

* `send-all` sends all BCH in an address to another address. Great for sending
you tBCH back to the testnet faucet.
